---
layout: post
title: Article 2
---

1) Source-available vs Open Source

- What does “source-available” mean?

A source-available license refers to a software license in which the source code is made publicly accessible, but the license imposes limitations on usage, redistribution, modification, or commercial use. This is different from an open source license as defined by the Open Source Initiative (OSI).

According to the Open Source Definition (OSD) provided by OSI, open source software must satisfy all of the following criteria:

- Free redistribution
- Access to source code
- Permission to modify and create derivative works
- Integrity of The Author’s Source Code
- No discrimination against persons or groups
- No discrimination against fields of endeavor
- No restriction on use with other software
- License must be technology-neutral, and more

If a license does not fully comply with these principles, it is not considered an open source license, even if the source code is available.

Examples of source-available licenses that are not OSI-approved open source licenses
- Server Side Public License (SSPL)
   Used by MongoDB. This license makes the source code available but adds restrictions for cloud providers. For example, if a cloud provider uses SSPL-licensed software as a service, it must release all service-related source code.  
   This violates:  
   - OSD Clause 6: No Discrimination Against Fields of Endeavor


   
2) Artificial Intelligence Software – OpenRAIL License

The OpenRAIL (Open & Responsible AI License) framework is designed specifically for AI models. Its goal is to allow open access, use, and redistribution of AI artifacts, while also embedding use-based restrictions that promote responsible and ethical use.

- Would OSI consider OpenRAIL "open source"?

It is unlikely that the Open Source Initiative (OSI) would classify OpenRAIL as an open source licens because No Discrimination Against Fields of Endeavor is violated.  
OpenRAIL restricts certain fields of use (e.g., surveillance, warfare), which directly conflicts with the requirement that a license must not discriminate against any field of endeavor. Therefore, while OpenRAIL promotes transparency and responsible AI use, it does not fully meet OSI's criteria for open source due to its use-based behavioral restrictions.